In the last lesson I demonstrated how,
Python will throw exceptions, when certain
events occur.
In this lesson, we're going to see how to
handle those event, using something
called, a try except.
Let me first show you the general form of
the try
accept and then we'll look at a couple of
specific examples.
We begin with the keyword try, followed by
a colon.
Indented inside the try, is our code to be
executed.
In other words, the code that might lead
to an exception.
Then, after all that code is listed out,
we have the except, clause.
Inside the except clause.
Is code to run, to handle exceptions, so
however it is I need to fix the problem,
caused by the exception being thrown, I am
going to put that code, right here, all
right.
So, let's look at a couple of specific
examples, we're going to call this
program, try.py.
So, let's try our divide by 0 problem
[SOUND] first.
So, we prompt the user to [SOUND] enter a
numerator.
Then we prompt [SOUND] the user to enter a
denominator.
Then we divide, to get a quotient.
Then we print the quotient.
Then, if it an exception, and is thrown,
we might write print, cannot, divided by
zero.
Enter a new denominator.
[SOUND] Then we get the denominator in
from the user.
There we go, and print the quotient.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Lets save and run this program.
So, we'll do 12 and then we'll enter zero.
[SOUND] And, as soon as a 0 is entered
and,
tries to divide 12 by 0 an exception is
thrown.
It goes to our accept clause.
It prints the message, cannot divide by
zero.
Asks us to enter a new denominator.
We enter 2, and we get the result.
So, that's how the try accept works.
Now lets try it again.
With our, file example.
So, we'll common out all this code.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Come back up to the try.
Prompt the user [SOUND] to enter the name
of a file.
And then we'll say, name is equal to
input.
Then we'll say, file is equal to open.
Name to read, and for the accept, we'll
say print, cannot open file.
We don't know why exactly, that doesn't
really matter, [SOUND] and we'll prompt
the
user again with a little different prompt
[SOUND] this time, it doesn't really
matter.
Okay, so, lets save the file, lets
run it, lets clear our screen, so,
Blah.txt, cannot
open file, enter the name, of the file to
open.
I know I have a, file called grades.text,
and it opens the file.
So, code that we think might, throw an
exception, can be placed inside of try,
and then code that we use to handle the
exception, is placed inside an except.
And there's one more variation I want to
talk about with
this quick, is that we can also, specify,
specific types of exceptions.
For example, for, file type errors, those
exceptions are thrown as IOErrors.
So, we can say except IOError to handle,
that particular exception.
For divide by zero errors, those are
called, zeroDivisionErrors.
So, we can specify that in the except.
And then it will handle just, the
zeroDivisionErrors that are thrown, in our
code.
So, when you have a batch of code that
could throw multiple exceptions.
And you're aware of what those exceptions
are,
then you can have specific code to handle
each
exception, or you can have a single except
clause, and handle all the exceptions, at
one time.
In the chapter exercise, we'll look at
this a little more closely.
But now we're going to move on to the next
lesson where we're going
to talk about one more variation of
try except, and that's called, try except
finally.
Where the finally clause, is a set of
statements, that are
executed when no other, statements can be
execute without throwing exceptions.